She called 911. The deputy who responded is charged with murdering her.
Prosecutors say an ex-sheriff’s deputy in Illinois, Sean Grayson, shot Sonya Massey, an unarmed Black woman, in the face in her kitchen and failed to render aid.

Updated July 19, 2024
4 min




Sonya Massey of Springfield, Ill., shown here in an undated photo provided by family through their lawyers. Prosecutors have charged Sangamon County Deputy Sean Grayson with murdering Massey while responding to an emergency call at her home on July 6. (Courtesy Ben Crump Law/AP)

By Jonathan Edwards
An Illinois sheriff’s deputy has been charged with first-degree murder for allegedly shooting an unarmed Black woman in her house after she called 911 to report a prowler.

Sean Grayson, 30, was one of two Sangamon County sheriff’s deputies who went to 36-year-old Sonya Massey’s house in Springfield, Ill., early on July 6. Within a half-hour, Grayson had shot Massey in the face and — as she lay dying — told another deputy not to bother with trying to save her, prosecutors allege.

On Wednesday, Grayson was indicted on charges of first-degree murder, aggravated battery with a firearm and official misconduct after a weeks-long investigation by the Illinois State Police and the Sangamon County State’s Attorney’s Office. At prosecutors’ urging, Circuit Judge Ryan Cadagin denied Grayson bond and ordered that he be jailed. Records show he’s at the Menard County Detention Facility.

Grayson, who was fired Thursday after his indictment, faces life in prison if convicted on the murder charge.

Sangamon County State’s Attorney John Milhiser and Grayson’s attorney, Dan Fultz, declined to comment on the case.

Civil rights attorney Ben Crump, who’s representing Massey’s family, said his clients have endured “unimaginable pain and suffering” for what he called “the heinous actions” of a guardian Massey had called on to help her.

“Sonya Massey called 911 for protection, but instead was tragically shot by Illinois Sheriff’s Deputy Sean Grayson,” Crump wrote Friday on X, the social media site formerly known as Twitter. “He not only took her life but also discouraged his partner from giving aid.”

Around 12:50 a.m. on July 6, Grayson and another deputy responded to Massey’s 911 call about a prowler near her house in Springfield, prosecutor Mary Rodgers wrote in a sworn affidavit. They allegedly went into her home to get more information and make sure it was safe.

While inside, Grayson noticed a pot on the stove and allowed Massey to remove it to prevent an accidental fire, Rodgers said. Meanwhile, the other deputy searched Massey’s house and found nothing dangerous, she added.

Grayson then made a comment about the pot, which held heated water, Rodgers said, and Massey responded by setting it down on the kitchen counter while Grayson was still in the living room.

Despite having cover and being some distance away from Massey, Grayson allegedly pulled his gun and threatened to shoot Massey in the face. Massey put her hands in the air and said “I’m sorry” as she ducked behind the counter between them, the prosecutor said.

Grayson came toward her and “aggressively yelled” at Massey, Rodgers said. Massey grabbed the pot and tossed out the water, according to an Illinois State Police memo obtained by the New York Times.

Then, Grayson allegedly fired three times at Massey, hitting her once in the face.

Only then did Grayson turn on his body camera, Rodgers said, contrasting his actions with those of the other deputy, who turned on his camera upon arriving at Massey’s house.

After Grayson shot Massey, his fellow deputy said he was going to get a medical kit from his vehicle, Rodgers said. Grayson allegedly told him not to bother given the severity of Massey’s injury. The other deputy nevertheless rendered aid and stayed with Massey until EMTs arrived, she said.

Medics took her to HSHS St. John’s Hospital in Springfield, where she died.

That day, the Sangamon County Sheriff’s Office asked the Illinois State Police to investigate the shooting.

A use of force expert with the Illinois State Police watched the body-camera footage of both deputies and determined Grayson’s shooting was not justified, Rodgers said. The expert compared the shooting “to an officer intentionally and unnecessarily putting himself in front of a moving vehicle and then justifying use of force because of fear of being struck,” she added.

Grayson’s “disregard of his training as a law enforcement officer, and his disregard for human life, shows by clear and convincing evidence that he is a danger to persons in the community,” Rodgers said.

Massey weighed 110 pounds and, according to prosecutors, wasn’t a physical threat to Grayson, who’s 6-foot-3 and 228 pounds.

On Wednesday, Massey’s family met with prosecutors and state police to get an update on the investigation and watch the deputies’ body-cam footage, according to a news release from the Sangamon County state’s attorney. Prosecutors plan to publicly release those videos on Monday.

Grayson was arraigned Thursday during his first court appearance. His next hearing is on Aug. 26.

Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker (D) on Thursday called Massey’s death a “devastating occurrence and tragedy.”

“We’ve seen too much of this where an innocent person — unarmed — who actually called for assistance was the target and victim of a shooting by a police officer,” Pritzker said.

Later, the governor said, “The tragedy of this is heartbreaking.”

Daniel Wu contributed to this report.


Sign up
washingtonpost.com © 1996-2025 The Washington Post
