Deputy Fatally Shot Woman Over Pot of Hot Water, Records Show
The deputy, Sean Grayson of Illinois, is charged with murder and has been fired. A review of the investigation did not find the use of deadly force “justified.”

Donna Massey, eyes closed with tears on her face, holds a sign that says “Say Her Name.” She is surrounded by other Black women at a protest.
Donna Massey mourns the loss of her daughter, Sonya Massey, who was shot and killed by Sangamon County sheriff’s deputies on July 6.Credit...Thomas J. Turney/USA Today Network
Alexandra E. Petri
By Alexandra E. Petri
July 17, 2024
An Illinois sheriff’s deputy charged with murder in the death of a 36-year-old woman shot her in the face in an exchange over a pot of water and advised his partner against rendering medical aid, according to court papers filed by prosecutors.

Sean Grayson, a sheriff’s deputy with the Sangamon County Sheriff’s Office in Springfield, Ill., faces three counts of first-degree murder, aggravated battery with a firearm and official misconduct in the July 6 death of the woman, Sonya Massey, the Sangamon County State’s Attorney’s Office said in a statement on Wednesday. Mr. Grayson, who has been fired from the sheriff’s office, was arraigned on Thursday in Sangamon County and entered a not guilty plea.

Mr. Grayson is being held without bond. A pretrial hearing is set for August.

Dan Fultz, Mr. Grayson’s lawyer, declined to comment on the case.

The shooting that led to the charges occurred on July 6, when Mr. Grayson and another deputy were sent to Ms. Massey’s home in Springfield at around 12:50 a.m., after Ms. Massey called 911 to report “a prowler,” according to officials’ statements.

According to a memorandum by the Illinois State Police, which reviewed the deputies’ body camera footage and their reports, Mr. Grayson and another deputy arrived at Ms. Massey’s home and began searching the area. It appeared a car had been broken into, the memorandum said, but the deputies did not find a prowler.

The deputies knocked on the door, spoke with Ms. Massey for a several minutes and followed her inside. Ms. Massey and the other deputy eventually walked toward the kitchen, where a pot was sitting on the stove. Ms. Massey turned the stove off, carried the pot to the sink and turned on the faucet, according to the memorandum.

Ms. Massey and Mr. Grayson exchanged words, and Mr. Grayson, using profanity, threatened to shoot Ms. Massey in the face, according to the memorandum. He then drew his service gun and pointed it Ms. Massey, yelling at her to drop the pot, again using profanity, according to the document.

Ms. Massey flinched and dropped the pot, according to the memorandum. Ms. Massey threw her arms in the air, saying “I’m sorry” and ducked for cover behind a counter that separated them, prosecutors said.

Mr. Grayson continued yelling at Ms. Massey to drop the pot and approached the counter with his gun, pointing it at her, the memorandum states. Ms. Massey stood up and again grabbed the pot, tossing out the water, it said.

Mr. Grayson fired his gun three times, and one shot struck Ms. Massey in the face, the prosecutor’s office said. Mr. Grayson discouraged his colleague from going to retrieve the medical kit from his vehicle because of the severity of the injury, prosecutors said. The second deputy still rendered aid and stayed with Ms. Massey until help arrived, they said.

Ms. Massey was pronounced dead at an area hospital, said the Illinois State Police, which conducted the investigation.

According to the memorandum, Mr. Grayson said he had feared for his safety. The case was first evaluated under Illinois law for the use of deadly force, according to John Milhiser, the Sangamon County state’s attorney.

Master Sergeant Nick Korte, the use of force incident review chair for the Illinois State Police who wrote the memorandum, determined that Mr. Grayson’s use of force was not justified.

By approaching Ms. Massey, Mr. Grayson “placed himself within a distance where he could have been injured,” Mr. Korte wrote.

“This is similar to an officer stepping in front of a moving vehicle and fearing for his safety,” Mr. Korte wrote.

Body camera footage will be released at 10 a.m. Central Monday, Mr. Milhiser said. Ms. Massey’s family viewed the footage on Wednesday at the state’s attorney’s office. Mr. Milhiser declined to comment beyond his public statement Wednesday evening.

Ben Crump, the lawyer representing the family of Ms. Massey, said in a statement on Wednesday that the charges were a “step toward justice” for Ms. Massey’s family, especially her children.

“Today marks an important milestone in the pursuit of justice for Sonya Massey’s family,” Mr. Crump said in the statement. “While nothing can undo the heinous actions of this officer, we hope the scales of justice will continue to hold him accountable and we will demand transparency at every step.”

The case drew public outcry and protests, with demonstrators demanding justice for Ms. Massey and transparency into the investigation. Some criticized I.S.P.’s decision not to release the body camera footage or the names of the deputies as the investigation unfolded.

“I have received several calls and texts about our lack of public statement regarding the recent Deputy-involved shooting,” Sheriff Campbell said in a Facebook post on July 10, adding that it was “imperative that SCSO protect the integrity of the investigation by waiting for the determination from ISP.”

In the statement released on Wednesday after the investigation was completed, Sheriff Campbell said that Mr. Grayson’s actions “do not reflect the values and training of the Sangamon County Sheriff’s Office or law enforcement as a whole.”

“Good law enforcement officers stand with our community in condemning actions that undermine the trust and safety we strive to uphold,” he said. “In times like these, it is crucial for leadership across all sides and spectrums to come together to heal our community.”

Mr. Grayson is in custody and will be arraigned on Thursday, according to the state’s attorney’s office.

Gov. JB Pritzker of Illinois said he was grateful that prosecutors charged Mr. Grayson.

“My heart breaks for Sonya’s children, for her family and friends and for all who knew and loved her, and I am enraged that another innocent Black woman had her life taken from her at the hands of a police officer,” he said in a statement.
