The comments express outrage and disbelief over a police shooting involving a Black woman in her own home. Many commenters criticize the officer's actions as racially motivated and unjustified, questioning the rationale behind the shooting and the delay in charging the officer. There is also a broader discussion on systemic racism and the historical context of "sundown towns," highlighting ongoing racial tensions and injustices in America.Show less
This summary is AI-generated. AI can make mistakes and this summary is not a replacement for reading the comments.
Comments
(
810
)

Latest
expand_more
He just wanted to kill someone. And the town's police department gave him the weapon to use.
Just saw this on ABC. Grayson should never been given a gun. He’s got what’s coming his way.
I am sorry, but it seems like a lot more had to have occurred that we are not being made aware of in this article. We need to hear the evidence recorded by the other deputy to better understand what took place prior to this shooting happening.
So, was the cop afraid the victim was going to throw boiling water at him? This article needs an editor, stat.

As for the cop, he deserves to be buried under the jail. As for his partner, good job the right thing. I know that seems like a low bar, but the shooter looks like he would probably threaten another cop...
How disgusting that it took 3 weeks to charge this murderer.
I am a white woman who grew up in Chicago, but has lived and traveled all over the world. As a litigator in northern Illinois for the past 30 years, I have traveled throughout Illinois to many, many, many different counties.

You have no idea how shocked I was to discover, just a few months ago, that portions of cities like Springfield -- THE CAPITAL OF ILLINOIS - are still classified as Sundown Cities.

If you don't know what a...
Show more
I am curious if he was high or drunk. What excuse can he be putting forth for shooting someone because they were in their own home, in the kitchen, and moved a pot of water that they were asked to remove from the stove? That is not, in any way, shape or form, a weapon.

If you are one of these insane people who want to argue that he could be hurt by boiling water, then you have ZERO knowledge of justification claims - because any claim of justification must...
Show more
And isn't it ironic that this took place in the hometown and final resting place of Abraham Lincoln?...the president who led the Union through a bloody, devastating civil war, fought to end the scourge of black slavery and to at least start this country on the path towards making the ideal of "Freedom and Justice for All" truly apply to ALL.

I wonder what Abe would think about this sorrowful event and how much we, as a country, have really moved toward this...
Show more
Another entry on the long, interminable list:

COOKING while Black
Another EXECUTION by a likely RACIST , unqualified LEO against a Black woman in her own home! The message is clear if you are Black, do NOT summon the Police unless you want to chance you or your loved one being killed. It's happened TOO OFTEN and needs to STOP. Life sentence for this SICKO.
Being black in America still means you are a target. Not even safe in your own one. It must be exhausting.
This police force unleashed a monster among the populace and must be held accountable.
I do not understand why they had to search her house in the first place?
This police officer had two DWIs behind him and a suspended driver's license and was still rehired as a police officer. Also, he has stage III colon cancer and many folks believe the shooting/murder was intentional.
(Edited)
I still don’t understand why he shot the woman who called the 911. And where was the deputy with Grayson. “Between them” (her between the two deputies?) in the confrontation is confusing. There has to be a motive significant enough that he thought he would get away with this. Obviously race played the biggest part, but there are elements missing in the narrative of this killing.
The guy has dead skulls tattooed on his arm. That is an indication of a mindset of death and destruction. Primitive
A suspected prowler led to the 911 call. The cops thoroughly checked Massey (the caller), which may have allowed the prowler to get away as shots were fired at her.
This is a bizarre case. What can he even argue he was afraid of happening? She wasn't acting aggressively in the slightest, and got rid of any potential threat, by pouring out the hot water, BEFORE he shot her! What possible reason can her give for killing her??
Driving while black, walking around eating Skittles while Black, now it's cooking in your own home while black.
Oh wait, didn't a cop walk into the wrong apartment and shoot a Black man while he was sitting in his own place eating ice cream? Eating ice cream while Black.
Why would this huge grizzly of a man shoot a very petite woman? What did she do, besides being Black? This is heartbreaking for an innocent woman depending on the law to keep a prowler out of her reisdence. I have called police before - I'm a petite white woman - and never, ever feared getting shot. Not once.
Once again The Post mentions the race of a victim of a police shooting when, according to the article, race was not an apparent factor in that shooting. This is an example of The Post wanting to divide people by race and cause race hostility for no reason other than to sell more newspapers. This has to stop.
Richard Prior said that he thought that "justice" meant "just us" because all the criminal defendants he saw were black. Remove their immunity from prosecution and see how many of them wind up in prison.
I have no idea of the rights and wrongs of this case, a jury will decide that after the prosecution and defense have made their cases, as is only correct.

However, those tattoos should have instantly precluded that man from being hired for law-enforcement.
People obviously just read the headlines. The reporting in this story is an absolute mess. Who cares about the water? What was going on where the cop had to “allow” the homeowner to take the pot off the stove? Indecipherable.
As an immigrant I black male with a PhD in a natural science, I avoid any interaction with law enforcement like the plague. I remember once I was pulled over with my wife in the vehicle. I asked her to turn on the recording app on her phone while I kept my hands on the steering wheel until the officer approached. When I was asked for my license and registration, I politely asked if I could reach in the glove compartment for my insurance and registration. After the office agreed, I got...
Show more
What a terrible example of the depth and breadth of racism in our country. How many more human beings need to be killed before white people wake up and learn how to be a member of the human race.
And drumpf wants to give scum like him immunity
My heart goes out to her family.

I'm not evolved enough not to wish for that same grace for him.
He didn't shoot her because of the water...
(Edited)
By those Neo Nazi skull tattoos on his arms Grayson should have never been hired as Sheriff’s Deputy…Never!
I hope he gets life in prison…
But perhaps Trump will pardon him…
Being such “Good People”…that is!!!
and some folks wonder why Black folks don't trust the PD, even when they ask for them, even when they need them, but especially when they're going about their business.

i guess cooking has to be included in "the talk" now.
I'm sorry.
I simply do not understand wtf happened.
Like, huh!
Like how/why did that happen?
Just insane.
Can someone tell me what i might have missed?
No explanation of why she called 911. The skulls tattoos on his arms make me wonder if he's been looking to kill someone.
so this is an example of mid west nice........no wonder these places are flyovers. he was brought up to think he would get away with it. but, heck, he is white.
seriously??
Why is this not front page headlines??
At 6'3, 228 lbs., Sean Grayson has proven to be a consummate coward, possibly a racist, as well. Let him rot in prison for the balance of his life, then he can rot in hell afterward.
I thought this was the kind of thing that doesn't happen in a small town.
He sounds insane, by any definition.
This series of events makes zero sense to me. If the other officer was searching the house when this happened and their body cam didn't capture anything, we only have the unreliable account from the shooter now, since the poor victim is now dead. We can gather from his uncaring attitude about helping her after he shot her in the face, that something is wrong with him. I have read that white supremicists/hate groups do have a presence in law enforcement. For him to NOT turn on his camera...
Show more
It certainly makes you wonder about his previous conduct with persons of color.
Cops and priests - the bad ones just get moved from place to place with no warning to the public. Their previous supervisors who allowed them to continue abusing their power should be held liable to. Put a Captain and a Cardinal or two in jail and the rest will stop protecting the bad ones.
This is the kind of policing that would have "qualified immunity" under a 2nd Trump administration.
Should we not call the police for help any more? Did BLM accomplish nothing?Why still so many cases of overkill or underreaction (Uvalde?) Why still no national standards for police behavior? Why do police unions still use their power to allow criminal officers to evade accountability? How did a callous and sadistic officer such as this one even get through training? Do police see themselves as servants or enforcers?
My heart goes out to this family, whose daughter was so...
Show more
What was he supposedly "afraid of"? That Massey was going to dump the hot water on him? Or that she was going to throw the pot at him?
It would presumably be discriminatory to reject someone for a law enforcement job strictly on the basis of appearance. But this guy? What were they thinking?
"The expert compared the shooting “to an officer intentionally and unnecessarily putting himself in front of a moving vehicle and then justifying use of force because of fear of being struck,” she added."

Police create this kind of set up quite frequently: intentionally put themselves in front or harm's say, and use that to shoot to kill, and then claim self defense. Lots and lots of the time for decades. I get the sense that it's what many departments train...
Show more
(Edited)
For all of you thinking Portland, Oregon is a bastion of liberal ideology. The police there, in June 2024 only just *began* to mandate body cameras.
I am stunned by the behavior of the offending deputy. I wonder if he has ties to White Supremacists or some other hate group. His tattoo may say something about his feelings toward others. It’s frightening to know that a law enforcement officer would do something like this.
So, do I have this right? He shot her in the face because she was boiling water in her kitchen? Am I missing something? It seems like a perfect place for a psychopath to hide: behind a law enforcement badge. All police academy cadets should undergo rigorous physiological screening to try to keep psychopaths out of uniform.
(Edited)
Atatiana Jefferson. Mitrice Richardson. Anthony Hill. Sonya Massey. Black people should never call the police. We should revert to segregations days when we policed our own communities.
Perhaps every person who applies to be a police officer, regardless of the size of the unit, should be required to undergo psychological testing. Issuing someone a uniform and gun should not turn them into an executioner.
I’m listening to:

KRS-One’s “Sound of da Police” right now; appropriate.

“Woop woop!”

https://youtu.be/9ZrAYxWPN6c
He should never been a police officer. He has total disregard for life.
This is the future of the United States if trumpf is re-elected.
Armed militias like proud boys (those violent men who refuse to grow up and become productive citizens) will prowl neighborhoods and murder whomever they target.
All for the entertainment of the magas and fox angertainment content, and trumpf cultists celebrate blood in the street, and in the kitchen.
He need to kill somebody that day.
That day he chose her.
He’s a cold blooded murderer.
“Respect my Authority!”
— “Cartman.” South Park.
I appreciate this report as others I have seen omitted critical details, like why she had called 911, and a description of what actually happened in that kitchen. I am so grateful murder charges have been filed and have a hard time imagine why he would not be convicted. I am also grateful that the US has FINALLY arrived at the point where a police officer would be charged and could likely be convicted. It has been SO LONG in coming but ...
Hopefully Grayson receives a sentence of life in prison.
If only this was not going to happen hundreds of additional times this year in America, it might seem like it was truly an accident that a single bad-apple cop made it through a rigorous hiring and training process instead of looking like white dudes were conspiring to put uppity citizens in their place.
This story is so horrifying. I can’t imagine the grief her family is feeling and will continue to feel as long as they live. The family’s life is ruined forever. Nothing can make them forget or understand the senseless slaughter of this beautiful Life.
“We’ve seen too much of this where an innocent person — unarmed — who actually called for assistance was the target and victim of a shooting by a police officer."
So this is almost routine and they were lucky to catch one bad guy?
How many others?
Glad deputy wasn't released on bond so he can brood about his actions faraway from any syncopate on the force.
"Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker (D) on Thursday called Massey’s death a “devastating occurrence and tragedy.”

Call it what it is.
First degree murder by an on-duty police officer.
No one has the right to take the life of another, so life in prison without the possibility of parole seems just about right.
I wonder how long he'll last inside.
Before police wore body cams and every phone took video, explanations of shootings like this were left to the word of the officers involved.
How many murderers are still working cops because they never got caught?
Scary.
How this got past an editor is the real mystery. Some of the worst writing I’ve ever read in a news outlet.
When will we stop police from killing black and brown citizens?

This "officer" is human filth.
Just the tattoo on his arm should have been enough to indicate he shouldn't have a gun and a badge. That's not exactly a sign of a well-balanced individual.
This is how bad policing in America has become.

I had a chance to call police for a noise complaint on some neighbors once and I chose not to.

Why? Because the neighbors were Black and I didn’t want to risk them being killed by police. You know, in case the cops ended up “fearing for their lives” as usually is the case.
So what possibly could have been this cop's motive for the shooting? A pan of water? Bizarre. Glad he's behind bars.
No one should bother to save him either.
Call for help,don't have a weapon, and get murdered by police. But, no, it's not the system that's the problem, it's a "few bad apples". When will this end?
Do not trust the police.
Do not trust the police.
Do not trust the police.
This keeps happening because systemic racism is real. Geez.
And yet some people do not pay attention to items like this because they still say there is nothing at all racist about a white officer shooting a black person.
If you’re not going to do the primary reporting on a story, but STILL put your byline on it, the least you can do is ensure that you include all of the facts. This is just conversion of someone else’s work. Why not just go with the AP’s account?
Rest in peace, Sonya. What a horrible injustice. In the graduation photo of Sonya Massey and her child, Sonya is radiant, beaming with hope, accomplishment, and goodness. The cop ripped her freshness, hope, and beauty away from our world. My condolences to Sonya's parents, family, and community.
So that's why we Black folks cook? So we'll always have something hot to throw at a cop?

I wonder why they had our ancestors do all their cooking.
Despite having cover and being some distance away from Massey, Grayson allegedly pulled his gun and threatened to shoot Massey in the face. Massey put her hands in the air and said, “I’m sorry” as she ducked behind the counter between them, the prosecutor said.

Grayson came toward her and “aggressively yelled” at Massey, Rodgers said. Massey grabbed the pot and tossed out the water, according to an Illinois State Police memo obtained by the New York...
Show more
Horrifying. Sounds premeditated to me.
Why were they searching her house in the first place. The entire call could have been handled at her front door.
This guy doesn't look like a Nazi at all. /s
Shot her in the face after threatening to do just that? I thought the training called for aiming at the center mass. Premeditated murder.
More racist cops killing black people. Guess it won't ever stop.
I’ve heard enough of these stories where police escalate routine interactions into violence that I’m reluctant to call police for anything except extreme situations.

Loud music, nuisance disturbances…I just live with it. It’s not worth someone getting assaulted or worse by police.
Near as I can understand, he had NO reason to shoot her. He was apparently just MAD because he was called out on an "unnecessary" (to him) call so he took it out on the caller. Lock him up, put him UNDER the jail, and throw away the key.
The simple fact that he shot her in the face shows that the cop had a lot of anger and rage. It sounds like he was close to her...and cops are taught to shoot at the center of mass.....the body, but he shot her in the face.
It is a problem of elected sheriffs. Seems like they hire folks who are often just school yard bullies with badges. As a former paramedic, I saw consistent poor quality sheriff staffs. We used to grimace when called to a scene that the sheriffs staffs were policing as they often seemed to be unfocused, and ready with guns and police aggression. By contrast, the better trained, and more professional state police seemed better equipped to handle tough situations: disciplined,...
Show more
(Edited)
I think this cop had decided he was going to kill this woman the
moment he stepped into her home. Talk about evil personified.
Shooting her in the face showed his true level of hatred for her.
The subject of his tattoos raises questions of where his mind is focused,
to permanently inked them on himself for the world to see.
He might get some admirers in prison.
I wonder if the shooter is aligned with MAGA.
Sounds like a racist cop hopped up on drugs which made him jittery and paranoid that she was going to throw boiling water on him. Police depts need better screening of applicants including psychological fitness...and better pay do they can attract better people.
Sometimes I think getting completely rid of the death penalty was a mistake.
This is so sickening. And i feel like I’ve read it be many times.
Nice tats. A thug with a badge and a gun.
How on earth did I know before I read the article that the cop is a white male and the victim was a Black female?

When will it be time to wage war against the police state that murders our fellow citizens? I don't just mean a physical war, I mean a financial war and a political war.
That no-good cop is thus-come of the earth...
Why on earth were they searching her home? Is it normal to search the home of someone who reports a prowler - basically a victim?

Or is it only the homes of black people?
My thoughts are with the victims family - I hope they sue the f out of this police force. What in the world could have been going on in this police officer's head?? Both of them - pulling guns on someone who moves a pot of water? Hope he does serve life. We need federal control over forces like this --- you can't tell me that there were not signs that something like this would happen with this police officer, issues with brutality in his record. So sorry for the victim - what a...
Show more
If the orange felon gains power, cops will be encouraged to brutalize people of color, immigrants.....basically anyone that is not a White Christian Nationalist.
The tats kinda say it all…
Roid rage and too much Fox tv.
Another picture of a cop who looks like a serial killer.
As usual, yet another incidence of entitled, ignorant, we-can-do-anything-we-want-&-get-away-with-it law enforcement at its murdering best.
To better have a knowledgeable & same trained policing force, the US should consider 1 Law Enforcement Agency per state. We should have National policing enforcement standards which each state must adhere to in order to be accredited. Our policing agencies seem extremely too heavy whilst our officers’ training is too varied. Other countries do this.
Police departments should inspect the tattoos on people they consider hiring. If it's skulls and other threatening imagery, that should disqualify immediately. I'm betting this officer has a longer file than just the one described here. I hope that will also be reported to help figure out what's going on in this department.
How can an entire generation learn to trust police officers when these types of incidents continue to happen? How do these criminals get to wear a badge and gun? I fear for the non-white, non-straight, non-maga population should tRump prevail with his 2025 agenda.
The expert compared the shooting “to an officer intentionally and unnecessarily putting himself in front of a moving vehicle and then justifying use of force because of fear of being struck,” she added.
Thank you!
He probably has a 3% sticker on the back window of his truck with the battle flag flying.

What is needed is a national list of LEO that have quit prior to being charged or disciplined and or have been fired for cause. Keep people like this from working in law enforcement ever again.
"ex-sheriff’s deputy...Sean Grayson, shot Sonya Massey, an unarmed Black woman, in the face"

Another MAGA hero that will go on Trump's pardon list.
One case. Part of an ideology rotting within our society. He did not kill a black woman. His way of thinking did. And, now we are doing to elect the Bigot in Chief.
Scum.
This sort of stuff just doesn't come out of nowhere. What sort of prior sicko crude junk was this jerk involved in that he skated on? A cop just doen't go dirty in one moment. There must be a history.
It's always so reassuring when cops have skulls and ghosts tattooed on their arms. Makes one feel so safe.

Throw the book at this racist, cowardly murderer.
He worked at 6 different law enforcement agencies since 2020 and has 2 prior DUIs from 2015 and 2016. He pleaded guilty to the 2015 charge and a judge found him guilty in the 2016 incident. Major red flags in the work history alone, then add in the 2 DUIs. Why was he still employed as a LEO?
Massey weighed 110 pounds and, according to prosecutors, wasn’t a physical threat to Grayson, who’s 6-foot-3 and 228 pounds.
Wow. I'll bet Deputy Grayson was scared out of his wits at the sight of this obviously dangerous woman.

Yeah, "/s."
Don't worry, trump will fix this by giving the police the power to shoot first and ask questions later. As long as they don't shoot wealthy white people. S/
Tattoos are common. However, are police recruiters paying no attention to the content and possible messaging of the tattoos prospective trainees display?
He planned to kill her. He made sure that his body camera was off. Luckily, the other officer had turned his on.

And don't kid yourself. It was WAAAAAYYY worse years ago, but with no cops wearing cameras and no cell phone cameras, it was always the cops word vs the "criminal".....and guess who was believed EVERY time?
This kind of story, which occurs way too often, makes me absolutely sick. My condolences to Sonya Massey's family, and my hope is for appropriate justice.
A murderer with a badge.
I hope the DA's office checks into his background. There is always a pattern with these animals. Dollars to donuts he became a cop so he could abuse those he finds inferior to make himself feel better. I am surprised he didn't shoot his partner for helping the victim.
Skull and bones tatto not a good sign for a police officer.
Don’t ever let him out. Keep him behind bars for the rest of his life.
I still don't understand what the cop's motivation was for shooting her. It's almost like 'I've got a gun so I gotta use it."
The cop probably won’t go to prison. In the majority of cases cops are found to have used “appropriate force”. We are allowing ourselves to live in a police state.
Black people have been hunted down by slave patrols (ie. cops) since setting foot on this continent. Cops, prosecutors, and judges are the formal forces of white supremacy, allowing "lone wolves", KKK, etc. to make up the informal forces. This is just the latest example, but there will be another, and another, and another. The system will always protect white supremacy.
Are more innocent victims killed by these mis-wired police officers than by illegal immigrants? Doesn't fit the narrative. Who will have more authority and autonomy in a Trump administration?
He shot her because she put a pot of water on the counter. I’m scratching my head about what his motivation was. She called THEM!
Who is hiring these rogue cops? Absolutely the death penalty for that S.O.B..
A heartbreaking MURDER. Sending prayers just isn't enough.
Unbelievable
What was wrong with this deputy that he would shot an unarmed homeowner far smaller than him who had called for his assistance? This prosecution appears fully justified.
Throw away the key!!!!
The beaming graduation picture, the neat little house - this is a horror. American carnage, I think someone called it.
Truly awful. The subtitle to this article: Why I Support Capital Punishment as a Legitimate Sentence
The office of sheriff and associated departments should be abolished in the US. They are an archaic political concept that often employs unqualified bigots that commit countless crimes. Existing only in America.
Hell, systemic racism isn’t real. Just ask any racist.
I'm so sorry for your family. If you are black, do not call the police to come to your location.
My heart goes out to Sonya Massey's family, friends, and everyone else sharing in this horror story.

Grayson should not be in society ever again. God help us all
The Black Panther Party was created to protect their community from the police. Hard to imagine, but things were even worse back in the '60s than they are now. We just have more cameras now.
What the heck is wrong with this guy? Racism? He thinks he has a license to kill?
NEVER call police if it can be avoided ....they are not there to help...
The cop has a tattoo of a smiling Jolly Roger skull on his forearm. Not a good sign.
It's time we demanded that people applying for jobs as police officers be given a full psychiatric evaluation. People like this man are scary when they are given a gun and authority. They should be screened out before they are trained.
The water in the pot was described as "heated" - no indication it was boiled. He was in the living room and she was in the kitchen. She had called 911 to report a prowler so why would she want to injure a police officer who was there to help her? None of this makes any sense unless there is more to the story. Heartbreaking that this young woman, who may or may not have had children, had her life ended in this gruesome way. My condolences to her family.
Where's the police union and their idiotic excuses?
So.... he shot her because he thought she was going to throw the boiling water on him? Seems weak - at best.
The key to this may be that Grayson had not turned on his body camera.
(Edited)
There are no words. 😢
How did this guy get to be a cop?
(Edited)
Kudos to the State Police investigative team and the Republican States Attorney on murder charges against this man. Hopefully the charges are not downgraded as this proceeds to trial. The actions described in the article are embarrassing to the human race and to law enforcement across the country. My understanding is that this Deputy has had quite a checkered past and I’m hoping for more reporting on this in the future. Condolences to family and I hope they can find some peace as this...
Show more
White supremacist in blue.
(Edited)
This will get me banned but it has to be said.

The problem is that Ms. Massey was Black. This does not make it right, but it is the problem. And it is our problem, that we live in a society that allows such things to happen, and it is a problem that we need to fix if we are to have an equitable society.

My most sincere condolences to the Massey family, who did not need this, and to her child, who will now have to go through life...
Show more
The black community cannot even call police for protection without being afriad of being killed, So what is the purpose of having police who are being paid with the taxes of that community also.
This story reads like a deputy shot a woman for boiling water. But there are passages like "she tossed the water" in the sink or at the deputy? The entire thing makes no sense unless the deputy was paycho, which is entirely possible, or she was genuinely threatening him with boiling water. By withholding those details from the story the Post does its readers a disservice.
Horrified? Absolutely… Surprised? Sadly, no… do better, America.
what was up with the pot of water?
where does Protect and Serve happen?
This poor woman.
The cop looks like a neo Nazi.
So tragic! My heart bleeds for all her loved ones.
This doesn’t surprise me. Take a minute and let it sink in that the person who called the police is dead. Too many police officers in this country are poorly trained and lack the intelligence, maturity and empathy to be effective at their job. Others are racist. What did this former officer think she was going to do?
(Edited)
Can someone explain how a scared woman who phones police, who are invited into her home, ends up being shot and killed by these same police.

No, I thought not.

Time for a federal police force with consistent standards and training, in place of these local fiefdoms
The reported account of the incident smells. My condolences to the victim who sought intervention and help from law enforcement. My condolences to the victim's family and to the community of the LEA that responded.
The New York Times is much more thorough and clear in its reporting. Why?
The union will protect the cop's supervisor, all previous supervisors, everyone who ever wrote a performance review, and everyone in human resources and internal affairs. Instead, all of those people should've been fired weeks ago. That's why this will never change. They're still trying to pretend that this kind of violence is mysterious and surprising. All of the people who protected this man will continue to be protected.
See why so many call them pigs?
The tattoos of skulls on his forearm are a tell.
I hope his trial is televised. The public needs transparency & facts on this lop-sided system that presumes ‘police immunity’. That must change; it took decades to assume people of color deserve less respect than whites. What a crock (and I’m white). All people MUST be treated fairly, equally, and with respect, regardless of their biography (or job perks). It is character and actions (behavior) that ‘should’ merit our treatment.
Please televise the trial. I learn so much...
Show more
How sad, more garbage cops that should never have been on the force. You really have to think twice before calling these folks if your white, if you're not, even worse. I work at a domestic violence shelter and have to tell people all the time that the cops are not there to protect you, they are there to protect the peace and it's as likely that they'll arrest you or shoot you as help you.
Some police officers seem to be afraid of their jobs. This kind of anger is the root cause of many inappropriate shootings. More training should be considered perhaps with a minimum of an AA degree. Would the events have unfolded the same way if Ms Massey was white ?
From the photo of her it appears she had at least one child, who will grow up as an orphan. I hope the family gets a hugh settlement.
Too bad Illinois doesn't have the death penalty because that scum Grayson surely deserves it. smh
Why do police departments keep hiring people like this?
Police: 30% bad apples+60% willing to cover up for the bad apples=10% who may be trusted by the public.
I don't like the odds, so would refrain from calling for assistance from a copper.
Memo to police forces:

If you see an applicant with skull tattoos on his arm, don't hire him. At best, he has Punisher fantasies.
One of the strangest incidents I've read about. She had possession of a pot of heated water in another room, which she poured out and that somehow made her a threat that justified deadly force? Too bizarre for me to follow, let alone make sense of.
I'm speechless.

What a piece of... work. I've always opposed the death penalty, but I'll make an exception for this guy.
Count on county sheriffs from Maine to California to be bestial more often than not.
He told the other cop to turn his camera off, and just let her bleed out.
This poor excuse for a human being deserves the death penalty.
Oftentimes in stories like this, I see a clear editorial slant intended to portray a police officer's reasonable actions as unreasonable. For example, the Michael Brown shooting was 100% justified, but the press tried SO hard to make it appear unjustified.

I see no such thing here. Please lock this man up forever. None of this makes any sense at all.
Three things this article reinforces:

1. Black people die in fantastical way at the hands of police.

2. No region of this country has a claim on racism. Racism is America.

3. End qualified immunity now!
(Edited)
Dude was called to 'help'. If I were a law officer and someone actually threw a pot of boiling water at me from ten feet away? ... I'd duck, just take the hit, then subdue and arrest them. He was looking for an excuse. This dude is a maniac. Why are monsters like this muscled creepy freak-show allowed in law enforcement?
This guy is a Maniac
This s Sad to read. And Terrible Reporting too. Why did the Cop shoot ? Was he High on Drugs , Did he have Mental issues ? PTSD maybe ?
No attempt to shed light.
Disgusting human being if you can even call him that.
So apparently Sangamon County does no due diligence when they hire deputies and will take any rejects from other agencies, even after they've been problems elsewhere.

Given his past, this guy should never have been hired, and certainly never allowed to patrol the streets and have access to a gun.

In Illinois, he can get from 20 to 60 years for felony murder, and I hope he get the maximum possible.
And the police wonder why the African American community gives them the side eye most of the time?

They're not to be trusted, EVER.
Just a few years ago, he would’ve gotten a pass and maybe a promotion.

I hope he goes ahead and pleads guilty, save the taxpayers a little money on a trial.
At some point they are going to realize that combat vets make poor police officers. Combat vets deserve our total respect but policing is not a good job for them.
A gun happy Idiot cop. I hope he spends the rest of his life in jail.
She threatened to throw hot water on him so he blasted her. Kill dozens of kids with a AR and it's run, run away pannties in a bunch(see Uvalde). You can't make this stuff up.
(Edited)
This is the type of thing that flashes on my mind anytime I see anybody sporting the blue line flag.
Read this story carefully. Think about what is described. Do I think all cops are this way? No.
But here is the thing: there are way too many occurrences like this, to not PEACEFULLY protest and ask for reform. Otherwise, we as a country are just giving a blank pass to police. Do you get a blank pass at your job??
So it kind of becomes obvious to...
Show more
Someone on WOPO mods got salty when someone pointed out that cops are evil.

And, hey, maybe that was a step too far. Not all cops are evil. But a heck of a lot of evil people have all thought "Hey, I could be evil for money if I became a cop". Worth thinking about is all.
This doesn't even make sense. What could possibly justify him shooting her in this scenario? Given that he didn't have his body camera turned on, I'm certain he's at fault.
The expert compared the shooting “to an officer intentionally and unnecessarily putting himself in front of a moving vehicle and then justifying use of force because of fear of being struck,” she added.
Well that seems to happen frequently in America, so...
This is stunning. What is wrong with him?
This is a man who hates women and Black people. Remove the cop part, and he is just a man invited into a woman’s home who threatens to shoot her in the face and then shoots her in the face. He likes power, control, and the fear in her eyes.

He didn’t do this because he’s a cop. He’s a cop because he’s a misogynist racist who wanted a license to abuse and control people.
It appears this deputy was looking for work. He had left two previous counties and also had two DUIs before this particular county hired him.
It is never safe to call the police. Never. Many are criminals and the rest cover for them. They are a gang, just like any other gang.
States should eliminate all local police departments and have one unified state police force. Better training, better management, better recruiting, and better disciplinary action. There still could be divisions such as traffic, major crimes, homicide, local, etc.

There are way too many local police forces, each having separate management and often separate hiring standards.

"Massey weighed 110 pounds and, according to prosecutors, wasn’t a physical threat to Grayson, who’s 6-foot-3 and 228 pounds."

Tragedy? No. This is flat out Murder.

And another reason why every single Cop should not be given a Gun -

They should have to serve for 5 years and earn the right to carry a Gun.

Prior to that they should have a Stun Gun and...
Show more
So, apparently this deputy was in fear for his life from a black woman a significant distance away, innocently holding a pot of hot water, who had called for assistance? Where do they come up with these people?
Too bizarre. If this was a plot of a movie you'd walk out not believing it could happen. If this is accurate I hope he rots in prison.
Why only life in prison? He should get the needle.
Never rely on the story as told by the shootee's lawyer, especially Crump. He wants money. Wait for the trial.
I am so confused by this story. The victim called to report a prowler outside and the police come in to investigate and rummage around her house? And what is all his attention with a pot of water? And he shot her in the face at close range? For what? This is horrendous and heartbreaking.
What an evil man.
Black How did this cold blooded killer even pass a basic psych evaluation to carry a badge and a gun? From his actions it’s clear this was so far outside the pale of any police action, the entire department, recruitment process and training needs to be overhauled. Didn’t any of his “fellow officers” or superiors see that he was a disaster waiting to happen? What other incidents or complaints are in his file? No wonder Black Americans are afraid to call the police even when they are the...
Show more
Love the skull forearm tat. That's not a memento mori no matter how you spin it.
He should be charged with a hate crime and violating the victims civil rights along with the other crimes.
How can we rid our law enforcement agencies of homicidal killers like this renegade villain with a badge? What national goal equals this in importance?
Another example of why women chose the bear.
The prison guards will probably protect this murderer, but I hope someone gets to him with a shiv before he gets out.
Jesus…
So the other day - in 2024- I went out for drinks with some new to me "friends" in my Texas neighborhood. We are all retired women.

At one point one woman started to tease another saying that she saw "blacks" visiting the home next door to the other woman and that maybe "blacks" would be her neighbors. Laughing, another woman commented "I hope they don't bring 10 kids."

If you think racism isn't real, open, and shocking, guess again....
Show more
Cops are garbage. Every one of them.
I read the story and am confused. It seems like a pretty clearcut unjustified shooting, but I'm unclear as to what was happening with the pot of water. She just moved it... with his approval, then he threatens to shoot her in the face?

Even for a psychopath, that's weird. "Move that pot of water" "Ok, I'll move it." (moves pot) "I'll shoot you in the face!" (ducks) Cops shoots in the face.
Frankly, I'm surprised they're aren't at least a few apologists in these comments making excuses for a cop who pretty clearly was looking for an excuse to kill someone.

Three to the head? At close range? My god.
What a sick human being. He is a murderer and needs to be in jail for the rest of his life.
Lesson learned: Don't let the police into your house under any circumstances.

Unless they have probable cause or a warrant for your arrest or for a search, they are not allowed to enter unless you ask them to. Police know that the state and/or their union will always protect a police officer even against the most egregious offense against a citizen. You are presumed guilty of whatever they say you are guilty of the moment they cross your threshold. Any...
Show more
Note to self: Never call the police.
(And I am white)
(Edited)
Once again, everything in Illinois beyond Chicagoland is "Deliverance" country...Of course Republicans would consider him for their secret service praetorian guard...
That's a lovely skull tattoo on his arm. Every mother's dream. Shudder.
Thank you for telling this story… I think it might be the first time I read a story about a white officer committing murder of a black person and being held accountable by the entire system from partner acting right, to boss firing him, to his being charged and jailed, to the state government condemning his actions. I realize a judge could still release him or he could wiggle out some other way, but the speed and accuracy of his accountability is a lifetime first for me. Illinois is not a...
Show more
He needs to be charged on federal charges with prosecutors asking for the death penalty. Unless there's a whole lot more to this story than told here, this guy's just a killer. A law-enforcement officer who murders in cold blood needs to be held to a higher standard.

And why are police hiring candidates who have skull tattoos and such? Body markings are voluntary indications of a person's mindset. I wouldn't hire a person for a public safety job who has...
Show more
If it were not for body cams and smart phones many would be getting away with murder.
Deaths’ heads tats. Just what I want to see on policemen/women. I hope he was tested for illegal substances. He looks amped up.
(Edited)
Good lord! Find some better writers and editors, Jeff! This article was so confusing I came to the comments section to get a clearer idea of what actually happened.
Not what I'm paying the expensive subscription for.
Avatar for {$username}
Staff response
This highlights the dire problem of police departments who fail to screen out psychopaths!
Crikey, throw away the key.
(Edited)
MY LORD.
The research states that, when you are dying, the hearing is the last of your senses to go. CAN YOU IMAGINE, one of the individuals you called to PROTECT YOU, shoots YOU and you hear him tell his partner "not to bother with trying to save her".
What the hell happened here? Has anyone read a better report on how this poor women ended up dead and why? What is it about the pot of water? The cop is in another room and then comes into the kitchen again and shoots her because of a pot of hot water?

I'm glad the judge is keeping this guy locked up. He sounds like the kind of bully who becomes a cop just so he can abuse someone and get away with it. And I suspect he's a nasty racist who figured he could get...
Show more
Avatar for {$username}
Staff response
WTF? I’m a retired police officer. Not once have I ever searched the house of someone who called about a prowler. I searched around the outside for any evidence of attempted break in, etc. Definitely talk to the complainant at the front door. But go inside and search the house? Without the request of the complainant - no.
Someone needs to explain that to me.
She must have been terrified by his aggressive behavior. His picture says it all, Roid rage.
We need black police forces to patrol black areas & white police forces to patrol white areas.
I wonder if this guy has White Supremacist tattoos. They've been infiltrating police departments, prisons, and the military for decades.
What in the world?! This miscreant murdered this young woman. He had evil on his mind when he answered that call or else he would have turned his body cam on as soon as he arrived like his partner did. This cannot go undone. Justice must be served!
The skull tats make and bulked up muscles make me wonder if this guy is a steroid user and wanted an excuse to shoot someone. Black lady with a pot of water? Sure.
I read this story twice and still don’t understand what a pot of water has to do with it. But who needs a coherent story when mere outrage is good enough for clicks?
I don't understand what the poor lady's misstep was or if their even was one.

It strikes me that a lot of men hired to be cops are real sissies. Racist sissies at that.
No plea deal!
So is this now ex-police officer claiming that this poor woman was threatening just life with the pot of water?
What possible reason could he have for shooting the very person he was sent to help.
Extraordinary!
Holy crap. Lock this dude up forever.
(Edited)
While inside, Grayson noticed a pot on the stove and allowed Massey to remove it to prevent an accidental fire, Rodgers said. Meanwhile, the other deputy searched Massey’s house and found nothing dangerous, she added.

Grayson then made a comment about the pot, which held heated water, Rodgers said, and Massey responded by setting it down on the kitchen counter while Grayson was still in the living room.

Despite having cover and...

Show more
This murder should be executed. Just as he did to an innocent person looking for help and protection. He executed her! For no reason. He deserves nothing less.
This is utterly insane. What on earth was this so-called law officer's excuse for shooting a woman in her own home? A woman who'd called 911 for assistance?

And what is this nonsense about a pot on the stove? He "allowed" her to remove it so it wouldn't cause a fire?? Since when does someone need a police officer's permission to remove a pot from the stove in their own kitchen?

This is all so bizarre and unfathomable. ...
Show more
Thank you for bringing greater awareness to this story. -chicago
What was that other deputy doing searching her house? Wasn't the prowler outside?
No wonder MAGA is so fond of ‘backing the blue.’

That whole scenario is just hideous. I hope her family sues everybody up and down the chain of command and wins every penny they’ve ever made. It doesn’t begin to fix it, but they deserve to spend those bustards’ money the rest of their lives, while the bustards rot in prison.
I can't make sense out of the description of the incident. Please rewrite.
To the Illinois governor: please stop calling these racist cold-blooded murders "tragedy." It makes them sound unpreventable, inevitable and morally debatable, like tragedy in theater and poetry. They aren't conflicted ideals in art, they're real, clear-cut, evil, and choices to hate. There are no moral quandaries here. Perps like Grayson must be held accountable, not by "tragic fate" but to the fullest extent of the law. No "tragedy" happened, a violent and preventable crime did.
Wait, what? These two cops where in this women's home, didn't find an intruder or signs for a half hour and one of them just decided to murder this women in front of another officer because she was boiling water. Huh?
Hope he gets life. Nothing else, life in prison with no chance or parole. Full stop.
In law enforcement firearms should be limited to trained and vetted armed response units deployed in response to situations where it is known there is an armed criminal. This homicide is another example showing not everyone should be provided with a lethal weapon. As my brother would remark when we saw an armed officer, “The streets ain’t safe.”
Not turning on their body camera should be an instant termination offense.
So why did the officer get mad again? Something seems to be missing from the account.
My daddy taught me to never trust a cop. So far he’s been proven right, time and time again.
I think police body cameras should have no power switch. They should be 'always on'. Memory is cheap enough that good compression can archive 10 or 12 hours of video continuously. Require all officers to have the body camera on, worn with a clear view of their activities, and not erased - they get it when the start their shift, and turn it in when they finish, and have no way to control it otherwise. Covering the lens, obscuring the lens, or leaving it off entirely are grounds for firing...
Show more
Vote for the Nazis and this is what Americans will get every day. . These goose stepping Nazis will be shooting everyone because they can get away with it.

When Ill. elects a GOP governor he /she will pardon this savage
Another racist in blue. Sickening. I hope he gets life in prison!
OMFG!! This story is so disturbing on so many levels… And sadly, it is not that surprising. If I feel sadness and rage reading this, I can’t imagine how her friends and family feel?? … And most people that are non-white living in this country.
THE POLICE ARE NOT YOUR FRIENDS
From the PBS website
"Defense attorney Dan Fultz argued for Grayson’s release, contending the state’s arguments fell short on other arguments. Fultz said Grayson is not a threat to the community because was compliant and turned himself in within a half-hour after his arrest warrant was issued.

He said the Army veteran owns a home in Riverton, a community just east of Springfield, with his fiancee, whom he plans to marry this fall. His detention...
Show more
Why do all the cops today look like White Supremacist Tattooed Thugs?
This is just horrific unjustified behavior. Just imagine when there weren’t body cameras. This victim did absolutely nothing and get dies because she called for her own safety. It’s like so many other times. Don’t call 911. Call a neighbor or a friend—-that’s a shame.
The writer left out the pertinent information. If you don't know. then state such.
Words fail me. How many times will this story repeat itself before we take decisive action to stop it?
Calling the police when you are Black mean they are far more likely to shoot you and far less likely to help you. Other races know that and frequently call the police especially on Black Men even with minor disputes.
Look at his tats in the picture of him. What do you think?

I know what I think.
Wait! I don't understand what happened. She put the kettle on the kitchen counter and then he got angry and yelled at her. For what?
Avatar for {$username}
Staff response
Wow. Just… wow.

I hope the family’s attorneys subpoena this murderer’s work record. I’m wondering how many times he used excessive force on other people.
Not having a camera on during an incident as a police officer should be a prosecutable offense. Glad that his partner had his camera on the whole time.
I've always thought too many high-school bullies end up working in law enforcement.
What a horrifying story. At least somebody there realized it needed to be investigated and prosecuted.
Seems like way too many LE agencies need to overhaul their hiring and training.
He's going to find that cops aren't real popular in prison. Enjoy that, a -hole.
Black Lives Matter Too
