Comments
(
1395
)

Recommended
expand_more
Sorry but...."I rebuke you in the name of Jesus"----WHEN YOU FREAKIN CALLED THEM" ....If I wrre a copp, I WOULD BE VERY AFRAID.🥶

"Clowncar CRAZY" talk.imo
LIKE much of humanity imo
99.99% of police are good. Then there's Grayson. I would think good cops would want his kind weeded out.
Good thing the mindreaders determined this was racism.
Is "I rebuke you in the name of Jesus" like a thing people say where these people are from, or is it just unpredictable crazy talk. Don't get me wrong, the cop is a murderer, but wtf did she say to him. And yes, we can guess why she said it, that's not the point - being black and unpredictable around police is lethal as we all already know.
The cop looks like a nut. With all those tattoos with skulls and the like on his arms, he looks more like some fool that wants to be in some outlaw motorcycle club, than a police officer. My question is what is wrong with these law enforcement agencies that allow their officers to look like street thugs or outlaw bikers?
Where's the daily news article reporting how police saved 30+ lives that day?
(Edited)
I read awhile back that police officers and military personnel often have the same exact psychological profiles as violent criminals. In other words, these people join these organizations in order to be able to legally be violent, Sp someone tell me, if they know this, WHY. can’t they screen those people out? Don’t they do psychological testing before hiring and if they don’t, why not?
note to police departments, if the applicant has skull tattoos don't hire him/her. I thought we all knew this.
Trying to figure out why the lady was heating up water? Was she cooking something? She took it to the sink to do what with it? Pour it out? Why heat up water just to pour it out? Anyone?
Highlights (lowlights?) from the video:

1. (9:32) Sonya (after opening her front door): Please don't hurt me.

Grayson: Why would we hurt you? You called us. [less than 5 minutes later he murders her]

2. (13:46) Grayson (pointing toward the pot of boiling water in the kitchen): Check on her(?) We don't need a fire while we're here. Sonya: Right (as she walks from living room to the kitchen). [As she moves the pot off of the burner,...

Show more
This is horrendous. But might we remove the race equation and settle on police brutality ( I support police but maybe they need more support, training, pay). So long as we focus on race, I fear unreasonable police shootings will not change. It’s not a race issue; it’s a policing problem. Think kent state- they were white. See
Show more
I swear some of these cops, especially the ones who decorate their pickup trucks and bodies with skulls, only enter the field because they love the thought of executing people.
So if it had been a white cop on his way on an emergency call, and he got shot by a black person, would there be a story here?
This story is so bizarre. Is the cop mentally unstable/ill? Why would a cop shoot a woman who was in no way a threat to him or his partner?
(Edited)
Municipalities need to feel the pain of hiring unstable people as cops.

Sue the country dry. Perhaps that will instill a desire for not hiring people who will be a financial liability when the civil suits flood in.

Just as there are sex-offender lists, there needs to be "no hire" lists for fired LEOs so they can't just move and get rehired. If the firig was with cause due to misuse of a firearm, they need to be treated like felons...
Show more
She woke that demon when she rebuked him. This guy has been on 6 police forces since 2020. That seems problematic to me. He was a ticking time bomb with a history of aggressive behaviors. Not only do they need to sue the force, they need to sue the city and him civilly. He needs life without parole because that was cold blooded murder.
When a cop conveniently forgets to turn on their body camera, then commits violence, the fact they didn't turn on the camera should be considered evidence of intent.

I know police unions are way too powerful to allow any oversight at all, but failing to have a body camera on during any interaction with a suspect should be an instant suspension.
I'm not saying that the other policeman there had the time or the opportunity to stop the alleged murdering cop. I wasn't there. But it might make sense, if there's more than one police person at the scene - and there's a crime about to be committed by another officer - that the cop who keeps her or his head disables the cop who is about to commit a crime. That level-headed police person may be the only defense the victim has and should rise to the occasion regardless of rank. Hopefully...
Show more
As an elderly white woman I say: the officer can’t fool anyone. The murdered woman called for help. Only reason the officers were still in her home 36 minutes later is because she was black and they hoped a search would provide a reason to arrest her. They illegally murdered her because of her color, rather than provide help. As a student at Cornell University, I saw research that more than 80 percent of white people have black ancestry. Racists are ignorant. We are the human race.
So, tell me again why police reform is such an egregious thing?


An important reminder, to keep in mind when you go to vote in Nov.

Trump has promised to provide blanket immunity to all Police Forces. That will make them instant Judges, Juries, and Executioners. Vote as a if your life depends on it. It does.
In the early 1990's, I was pulled over on an Interstate highway. I was driving a high end luxury car. As I looked in my rear view mirror as I sat in my car on the shoulder, the officer was approaching my car in a usual manner. He was walking sideways tightly against my car. What was most striking is that he had his weapon drawn and holding it upright. He cautiously took a peek at me and one could see his body relax. I was a woman. I don't really recall any conversation but I...
Show more
The story portrayed in this article makes no sense at all. The element that's missing is the victim's mental illness. Even Benjamin Crump at the news conference acknowledge that she suffered from mental illness. Her family told other reporters that she suffered from paranoid schizophrenia. The police asked her if she was mentally ill upon meeting her. None of that justifies a shooting necessarily, but it does provide the necessary context for what was happening. Otherwise, none of this...
Show more
Two trained law enforcement officers couldn't figure out how to deal with a confused old lady with a pot of water aside from shooting her? How about just walking away and calling someone who knows how to deal with mental illness?
Put yourself in the cop's shoes, but as an unarmed citizen: a stranger has a pot of boiling water. Perhaps they even threaten you with it. Do you think "this person is in a bad spot, I need to be careful/leave/ continue to talk to them" or do you think "I need to end their life to protect myself".
Another of the wrong kind of person for the job, that man.
Why do I have to read a foreign newspaper to get the news?? Neither the WaPost nor the NYTimes has the video. They also somehow conveniently omitted the news that the woman's family told police afterwards that she was a "paranoid schizophrenic". The Daily Telegraph had that information this morning. On the video tape the officer asked the woman if she was all right mentally. But obviously what's happening was that the police were apprehensive about her mental state.
(Edited)
Someone please explain to me what "I rebuke you in the name of Jesus" actually means and why someone would randomly say it.

I really don't understand why or what was going on in that interaction. I am not blaming the victim I just don't understand why/what happened.
Why no mention of why they were called to the scene?!
Why 1st degree murder, which I believe is premeditated? Seems more consistent with 2nd degree murder?
The video is very confusing. The police officers speak to Massey brusquely. Massey herself seems somewhat challenged in her interaction with the officers, and the statement of rebuke uttered while holding a pot of boiling water could be interpreted as threatening. Yet, it's really hard not to see the officers' behavior as a gross overreaction. It seems as though they might've easily retreated through the front door instead of opening fire on this woman. What a heart-wrenching incident....
Show more
This should have been a mental health call as soon as she answered the door. It was clear she didn't have all of her faculties. She basically thought they were the devil??? Idk but something was way off with her. No excuse to murder But If I was a cop I would have called for mental health assessment and remained outside
SMH, who are the people we put in police uniforms and arm them with deadly weapons. Who is vetting these applicants?
Require social & behavioral science courses, counseling and IQ testing. And stop hiring directly from the military.
First degree murder is a surprise.
No bail, another (happy) surprise.
I guess him saying “I’ll shoot you in the face” and then doing it displayed premeditation.
I’ll be shocked if he gets convicted for first degree.
I hope the jurors have options, because he’s definitely a murderer.
They need to send a message to trigger happy cops that the days of no accountability are over.
Pay peanuts and you get monkeys...
Policing in the USA was birthed and designed to control Black people.
Forward to the present, the same system in place, the same ignorant racist people in the job, and the outcome is predictable.
That is why some of us continue to be abolitionists. We're not fooling ourselves that it's, "just a few bad apples". It is the system working as it was designed to work and the same kind of people are drawn to work in said system that have always worked in...
Show more
But she had the audacity of being a black woman in America.

I mean what did she expect?
(Edited)
Disgusting...
I guess this cop called the kettle BLACK and SHOT.
I have read elsewhere that this killer cop has transferred police dept to dept. Can't wait to see his employment record.
The police are similar to the Catholic Church - when they transfer abusive priests to other parishes. Stop hiding these cops- unless you want to be complicit with the crime and charged as well.
Steroid Rage? I have read several accounts similar to this that were attributed to behavior of police officers on steroids. Nothing seems abnormal until the woman's "I rebuke you" statement happens and he goes off the handle.
A classic abuse of authority. Don't these people take F-Scale tests any more? They are authoritarian personalities with no empathy for others.
"fired three times at Massey, hitting her once."?
(Edited)
And today the GQP, Vance, and Elon Musk is wailing about DEI hiring policies, well we see what we get without it don't we?
edit=+Vance
First degree murder? Any attorneys here?
This ought to be a capitol punishment case.
What a coward to fear that woman and her hot water under those circumstances.
So many of these shootings by a cop are due to the cop being so afraid of such minimal danger or imagined threats.
One unasked question is, why did the police officers enter her home in the first place? She reported a possible prowler outside of her home. Once the officers determined that there was no prowler present, they should have reassured her and left, having no reason to enter her home. Why do cops think they have the right, without a warrant or just cause, to enter someone's home just because they want to? They're just looking for a reason to arrest someone for something and think they'll find...
Show more
Absolutely heartbreaking and outrageous! Why on earth this poor woman was killed in cold blood in such a horrific manner!? Makes no sense at all. Why pull a gun on her? Why not just back away. Leave her home. She was safe. There was no prowler. Say ‘your home appears safe, ma’am, good night now.’ That’s it! But this… no words… just sickening.
President Biden’s quote reveals the quintessential meaning of woke: “…Massey should be alive and her death “reminds us that all too often Black Americans face fears for their safety in ways many of the rest of us do not.” Not only do white people not face these risks, far too of us are not even AWARE that these risks exist for some of our fellow Americans.
What else is he supposed to do when facing literal water....back up. Literally just back up. What a complete moron. Idiocy combined with a sense of unmitigated power leads to unnecessary death.
So Divine Intervention For Trump, but none for that poor woman?.

.Many people are saying that Mike Pence was saved by Divine Intervention, when Trump tried to have him Lynched..
When is this going to stop ?
The fact that he.was fired and charged with murder is a atleast a small step but that won't bring her back.
Often in these cases they "are suspended with paid leave". Not much of a deterent .

If more are charged with murder and actually convicted maybe that will help deter these murders ?
So she calls 911 for help and they spend how long shaking her down for ID. WTF

Why were they in her house at all.

I'm glad the other officer had his camera on the whole time, so people can see the whole story for themselves.

This is just the type of story that would have gotten twisted without a video.

These police agencies need to find some better phycological...
Show more
(Edited)
So this 110 pound, unarmed old woman was murdered by a man more than twice her weight and size because she said “I rebuke you in the name of Jesus” a second time?

The pot of hot water was sitting in her sink, according to the article. She was no possible threat, which the video footage that led to first degree murder charges against the officer showed.

The killer should be put away for life.
Deputy Grayson had two prior DWI's.....yet, they kept him on the force....
This video is so hard to watch. Why on earth did they walk into her house and then demand her ID. She was the victim yet they treated her as the suspect. He could have just stayed on the other side of the bar and not approach her in the kitchen. This cop is a menace to society! Glad he has been charged with first degree murder. The police have to reiterate to the officers that they are there to protect and serve.
Police need a wee bit of courage to do their dangerous job. You would think these big tough looking guys would have some.
Why do I have to go searching for a video that the police have released to the public instead of seeing it here?
Where do police departments get these people?

Are they not vetted?
The reaction of the two officers were totally different. One moved away from the threat. The other confronted the threat by firing his weapon.

We now have police fearing hot water. There were no grits in that pot.
Interesting that the Washington Post article failed to that Grayson had been fired by several police departments.
'Roid rage, maybe? Look at that cop's physique.
Get used to more of this kind of tragedy if TeamTramp wins in November.

Vote Blue.
I rebuke you in the name of Jesus. Woman made a religious threat. No excuse for shooting her in the face.
The FBI issued reports about white supremacists and white nationalists infiltrating police departments across the country, a couple decades ago.
In all that time, this trend continued BECAUSE there are those from the top down with the same mentality.
Protect and serve means nothing to them and they think they are above the law.
They are cowboys and this is the wild west in far too many places across the country. They also place a high value on...
Show more
No one thought his body art was of concern?
I am so sick and tired as a Black man in this country that we have been executed for having the weapon of our skin color, flashlight, cell phone, fake $20 bill, now a cooking pot with water. We are human! STOP KILLING US!. Years ago this Deputy Hound Dawg would NOT even be interrogated. Pass legislation even though that will not change racist minds and cops in uniform.
Why write a story without the video included?
Require 4year degrees, only arm a select few with proper training, get rid of qualified immunity, defang the police unions and lobbies, require body cameras, no more military gear, do more community policing, have an outside board that regulates cops like nurses have, require peaceful conflict resolution training….these are just a few ideas and I am sure people smarter than me can come up with even better ideas for police.
Grayson will walk. He's white, male, and (was) a cop. Ms. Massey was a woman and above all, Black.

I didn't say this is right - it isn't. But it is what is to be expected. This is America - do not expect justice.

My deepest sympathy to the Massey family.
Hey, I have an idea! What say instead of vaguely saying Congress didn’t pass the bill, you report clearly that Biden ran on the legislation, House Democrats passed it and Senate Republicans filibustered it to death.

Lots of potential voters are mad that Biden didn’t “do” a particular law, not knowing that he and the House Democrats tried to pass them but were blocked by Senate Republicans. They don’t know because the media couldn’t be bothered to report on...
Show more
The thing is, cops so routinely get away with this kind of outrageous behavior it's engrained in them that they will get away with it. This case is the rarest of the rare: A cop being held accountable for unlawful actions.
If it wasn't for body cams he would have got away with it. I remember visiting NY for the first time in the mid-80s when i was young and naive - socially met an activist at a party who told me that they were protesting against the killing of a black man who had been shot, in the back, by the police in his house. At the time I could found it very difficult to believe the police would kill someone for no reason. Its hard to fathom just how many black men, and some women, have been shot by...
Show more
Cop looks like a thug with his skull tats
How dare the WAPO not take responsibility ; they follow Fox and they let the GOP disregard the Floyd Bill. These bad apple police need to be removed and not permitted to jump to new cities.
They should lose their pensions too.
The GOP is not a law and order party - ask Thomas about his bribes from Leonard Leo - for the party. The WAPO let's that one go too.
that cop worked for 6 different departments since 2020. sure sign of problems
How many on here think the situation would have been the same had Massey been white? This was really, really bad!
It's always comforting when the cop you call shows up with skulls and ghostly figures tattooed on his arm.
I find hope in the officer who had his camera on, rendered aid to the victim and refused to cover for the killer cop.

We need more officers like him.

Nothing will improve until out of control cops begin to fear repercussions for their actions.

Remember, vote blue up and down the ballot. Trump has vowed to give cops blanket immunity.
It sounds like they were both on the crazy, paranoid, side. Very sad.
When you sense Satan is in your living room, you rebuke him in the name of Jesus.
(Edited)
I’m sorry, whaaaaat? This cop was afraid of boiling water? What did he think this job was anyway? Good God, I’m so sorry for Ms. Massey and her family
It seems that way too many cops are both stupid and cowardly. When they are handed guns, things can get very dangerous for the rest of us.
I don’t understand. It’s difficult to throw a pot of water on someone who is standing a distance away,

And what does it mean she rebuked him? Why didn’t he say “OK lady” and leave?

None of this makes any sense.
(Edited)
Crazy cops enjoy murdering unarmed black people, vicious sociopaths with a badge, and the biggest reason NO ONE trusts cops.
Put this sub-human away for the rest of his life.
He's a straight up murderer and I don't see how any jury can find him not guilty. Buddy, you will NOT have an easy time in prison, either.
Roid rage?
Looks like Jesus didn't help a black women. Again.
So if a trained law officer can't use a gun properly, safely, and with due restraint, without murdering somebody with it, why do we think that every yahoo out there can do so?

As a society we aren't advanced enough to have guns. Too many people are either too emotional, paranoid, stupid, don't care, or too sick in the head for guns to be freely available to the point of ubiquity.
What goes wrong in the police officer's head that causes him to kill another person? I understand untrained people having panic with threatened and doing stupid things (I do not justify, but I understand). But, that is why we train and train and train police officers. They are supposed to be able to keep their wits about them in stressful situations (and this one does not seem all that stressful). How do they get out of training if they are going to have such an deadly overreaction when...
Show more
This is who we are, America. Never, ever, trust a cop. They will kill you.
Hmm, it used to be police could not be sued because it wasn't specifically mentioned in the constitution.

Neither was "presidential immunity" and that's a thing now. Says the highest court in the land.

Lawyers should be lining up. Start bankrupting cities that hire cops like this. Then we'll get police reform.

There was another officer in there who did not say "what the hell are you doing?" He did...
Show more
Police officers should be required to take yearly social or behavioral science courses. A poorly read officer is usually a dumb, trigger happy nut. Also, stop hiring directly from the military, especially soldiers who have experience combat without a lengthy therapeutic cooling off period.
We are being hunted.... this made me cry. I am noticing a trend and wondering if it is a tactic by those who have infiltrated law enforcement to fabricate reasons and scenarios to kill black people. He told her he was going to shoot her in the face-and he did.
Here we go again - guns and poorly trained law enforcement officers.

Those things that spit out hot metal will do it every time.
Just look at his skull tattoos. Really, this is the guy they wanted as a cop??? It looks like something you'd find on neo-nazis.
The accused has skull tattoos on his arm. For a public servant that makes a certain statement about his character and judgement. Who allowed him to be in a position of power and authority?
When will it ever end? when will it ever end?
The guardian was first with this news. 45 minutes ago
What’s keeping WAPO.
Didn't turn on his body cam, repeatedly swearing at someone who called the police for help - red flags. Blasting her in the head because she was armed with a pot of hot water? he's going to end up in prison for a long time, which is where he belongs.
This one police officer murdered one unarmed woman in her home and should and will be severely punished as a lesson. Thank goodness for body cams.

But this crime does not support a politically-motivated racial claim any more than one where the races of the officer and victim are reversed.
And we wonder why people, especially black folks, don't like to call the police.
People who join street gangs are stupid. If they enjoy power and violence, they should join the gang that is the police force. They get to kill with impunity and in most cases they will have immunity in the court of law.
(Edited)
She called them for help. What gave them the right to move around the house without her permission? If they wanted to search for the prowler in the house, they needed to ask for her permission. I get that police work is dangerous, but if this armed, big hulk with skull tattoos is afraid of this woman, I’d say he should have never been allowed to carry, let alone be on the force. He should have been in therapy, not a policeman. That he was worried about a fire starting on the stove, whilst...
Show more
So the bull-necked officer creates the potential dangerous situation, then shoots and kills the woman doing what he ordered her to do. I see only one resolution here: life in prison.

I'm just curious: did Officer Bull-Neck have that ink prior to being hired, and if so, did anyone bother to ask him what his tats meant?
I am trying hard to respect the police, but they make it almost impossible.

My neighbor, a cop, threatened me with a chainsaw while I was in my yard with my back turned to him and he was off duty just because I told him that I didn't appreciate the excessive noise his brats were making
Watched the video....no way this monster should have a badge and a gun.
From the start of the incident, he showed complete disdain and was almost shouting at the lady.....who seemed intimidated by him.
Convict him and put him away for the rest of his life....in the general prison population.
Murder, most foul.
Dude has massive death skull tattoos on his arm; not a good sign for a "peace officer". Maybe ok for a "piece officer".
It's because white cops are scared of black people.
(Edited)
I’m certain that in the history of this country many, many, mostly Black and poor, have unjustifiably been murdered by police. There was no proof or recourse before body cameras and witness cell phones. Pass that damn bill!! I’m White and I’m mad as hell.
I'm Mike Johnson, and I'll get right on it.
The legislation Biden is pushing: Police need to answer for their actions, Remove qualified immunity-- Which is essentially a license to kill. The legislators that are holding it up have a big "R" in Front of their names. Whar's that tell you? These people love raw power and that's what we will get If they get reelected. And if cops are so worried about getting hurt that they have to shoot someone, they should find another job. If you don't like the heat get out of the kitchen.
Does he support trump?
I read another article that said he'd been with several other police departments in the last two-three years. Say what? I don't see any water on the floor, either. she didn't advance on him. The counter is between them. He could have backed up if he was actually concerned. Throw the book at him.
(Edited)
OMG! The video…WTF-ing hell? Kidding with her one second and then shoots her in cold blood. What is this world coming too. There was absolutely no rhyme or reason for that. He deserves to be indicted, tried, convicted, and put in prison. People like that do not deserve to be policemen!
(Edited)
Obviously horrific and completely unjustifiable. Any officer who doesn't have their body cam on ON EVERY SINGLE CALL should be automatically fired. No questions. It's either on, or you are out.
What on earth in this scenario could possibly have threatened him????? The guy is completely nuts, he was so out to kill this woman!
a pot of boiling water at a long distance is not remotely a threat.
Now imagine a Trump dictatorship….
This could be any of us, on any day of the week.
I wonder if the shooter understood the meaning of “rebuke.” I wonder what he thought she was saying.
I watched and listened to the video. He asked her to remove the pot. Then told her to put the pot down. Then shot her as she cowered. Murder, clearly murder.
I saw this and let out a scream! That poor family. That cop is culpable